br: add compact log backup (#20342)
pingcap/docs: br/br-compact-log-backup.md

---
title: Compact Log Backup
summary: Learn how to improve Point-in-time Recovery (PITR) efficiency by compacting log backups into the SST format.
---

# Compact Log Backup

> This document describes how to improve the efficiency of point-in-time recovery (PITR) by compacting log backups into the [SST](/glossary.md#static-sorted-table--sorted-string-table-sst) format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to improve the efficiency of point-in-time recovery ([PITR](/glossary.md#point-in-time-recovery-pitr)) by compacting log backups into the [SST](/glossary.md#static-sorted-table--sorted-string-table-sst) format.
```

## Overview

Traditional log backups store write operations in a highly unstructured manner, which can lead to the following issues:

- **Reduced recovery performance**: disordered data needs to be written to the cluster one by one through the Raft protocol.

> - **Write amplification**: repeated write operations increase storage pressure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Write amplification**: All writes must be compacted from L0 to bottommost level by level.
```

- **Dependency on full backups**: frequent full backups are required to control the amount of recovery data, which can impact application operations.

> Starting from v9.0.0, the compact log backup feature provides offline reorganization capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from v9.0.0, the compact log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:
```

> - **Enhanced recovery performance**: structured data supports efficient batch writes.
> - **Optimized storage space**: reduces redundant data storage.
> - **Extended full backup intervals**: minimizes the impact on application operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- SSTs can be ingested by RocksDB fastly, hence **enhanced recovery performance**
- Redundant data can be removed during compaction, hence **optimized storage space**: 
- Full backup intervals can be increased with the basis of keeping RTO, hence **reduced the impact on application**.
```

## Limitations

> - Compact log backup is not a replacement for full backups. It must be used in conjunction with regular full backups. To ensure PITR capability, the compacting process retains MVCC data. Prolonged intervals without full backups can lead to excessive storage usage and recovery issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Compact log backup is not a replacement for full backups. It must be used in conjunction with periodical full backups. To ensure PITR capability, the compacting process retains all MVCC versions. Chronically without full backups can lead to excessive storage usage and may encounter issues when restoring in the future.
```

---
title: Compact Log Backup
summary: Learn how to improve Point-in-time Recovery (PITR) efficiency by compacting log backups into the SST format.
---

# Compact Log Backup

This document describes how to improve the efficiency of point-in-time recovery (PITR) by compacting log backups into the [SST](/glossary.md#static-sorted-table--sorted-string-table-sst) format.

## Overview

Traditional log backups store write operations in a highly unstructured manner, which can lead to the following issues:

> - **Reduced recovery performance**: disordered data needs to be written to the cluster one by one through the Raft protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Reduced recovery performance**: unordered data has to be written to the cluster one by one through the Raft protocol.
```

- Currently, compacting backups with local encryption enabled is not supported.

## Use compact log backup

Currently, only manual compaction of log backups is supported, and the process is complex. **It is recommended to use the coming TiDB Operator solution for compacting log backups in production environments.**

### Manual compaction

This section describes the steps for manually compacting log backups.

#### Prerequisites

Manual compaction of log backups requires two tools: `tikv-ctl` and `br`.

#### Step 1: Encode storage to Base64

Execute the following encoding command:

```shell
br operator base64ify --storage "s3://your/log/backup/storage/here" --load-creds
```

> **Note:**
>
> - If the `--load-creds` option is included when you execute the preceding command, the encoded Base64 string contains credential information loaded from the current BR environment. Note to ensure proper security and access control.
> - The `--storage` value matches the storage output from the `log status` command of the log backup task.

Example command output:

```text

> Credentials are encoded to the base64 string. DON'T share this with untrusted people!

Reviewer 3: rest lgtm
